Potato Facts!
The potato (Solanum tuberosum) belongs to the solanaceae family of flowering plants. 
The potato originated and was first domesticated in the Andes mountains of South America.
The potato is the third most important food crop in the world after rice and wheat in terms of human consumption. 
More than a billion people worldwide eat potato, and global total crop production exceeds 300 million metric tons.
There are more than 4,000 varieties of native potatoes, mostly found in the Andes. 
Potatoes come in many sizes and shapes. 
There are over 180 wild potato species. 
Though they are too bitter to eat, potatoes important biodiversity includes natural resistances to pests, diseases, and climatic conditions.
Potato is vegetatively propagated, meaning that a new plant can be grown from a potato or piece of potato, called a “seed”. The new plant can produce 5-20 new tubers, which will be genetic clones of the mother seed plant. 
Potato plants produce flowers and berries that contain 100-400 botanical seeds. These can be planted to produce new tubers, which will be genetically different from the mother plant.
Potatoes can grow from sea level up to 4,700 meters above sea level; from southern Chile to Greenland. 
One hectare of potato can yield two to four times the food quantity of grain crops. 
Potatoes produce more food per unit of water than any other major crop and are up to seven times more efficient in using water than cereals. 
Potatoes are produced in over 100 countries worldwide.
Since the early 1960s, the growth in potato production area has rapidly overtaken all other food crops in developing countries. 
Potatoes are a fundamental element in the food security for millions of people across South America, Africa, and Asia, including Central Asia.
Presently, more than half of global potato production now comes from developing countries.
Potato is a vegetable.
Potato’s roots trace back to Peru where the Incas were the first to grow the crop.
Despite its appearance, potato is made up of 80% water and only 20% of solid.
Potato varieties have grown over the centuries, and there are around 100 of the edible kind.
Potato is also known as a spud.
Potato comes from the Spanish word “Patata”.
Idaho is coined as the Potato State.
Idaho has a potato museum.
Potato tubers grow as a part of the nightshade family.
That potato that you had for dinner is just one of the many varieties of the tuber crop, with it being the Sebago or common potato in particular. Other known types are the Russet Burbank, Pontiac (with the thin red skin), Pink Eye (Tasmanian Pink Eye), Kipfler, Spunta and Pink Fir Apple.
Potato a.k.a. near-perfect food is 99.9% fat-free and contains vitamins B6, C, E, K, and minerals like potassium, magnesium and phosphorous.
Potatoes are used to make alcoholic beverages.
There was a time when potatoes were traded with gold directly. Back in the 1890s, the Alaskan Klondlike gold rush potato had very high value due to its essential Vitamin C content.
You can eat potatoes with sprouts.
Potatoes have gone bad when they are shriveled and wrinkled.
One could suffer from potato poisoning upon consuming leaves and green stems. These parts contain toxic solanine which could cause potato plant poisoning with symptoms such as abdominal pain, fever, nausea, headaches, and vomiting. It may take up to 8-10 hours from consumption before the onset of such signs.
Dry, dark places are the perfect storage setting for potato. When kept at 45-50 degrees Fahrenheit, they could even last up to three months.
The scientists have claimed it, you could live off potatoes. Just pair it with a fair serving of milk or butter, and you’re good to go with almost all the nutrients that a human body needs to survive.
Over a billion people eat at least 1 potato each day. 
The average American consumption is at 140 pounds of potatoes per year, while the Germans consume more than 200 pounds of potatoes per year.
French Queen Marie Antoinette gave birth to potato in fashion inspired by the bouquet of potato she received. The flower instantly became trendy once she made a public appearance with it as decorations to her clothing.
There is a blue-violet colored potato.
Also known as ‘pomato,’ the tomtato is the product of a grafted potato plant and tomato plant.
The United Nations declared 2008 as the official Year of the Potato.
National Potato Day (or days) is celebrated every August 19 and October 27.
Common ways potatoes are cooked and served are baked, boiled, mashed or as hash browns or French fries.
Potatoes are used as feed for livestock.
Potatoes can be used as a binder and thickener for soups, sauces and other food products.
Potatoes can be eaten peeled or with the skin on, cut up into pieces or whole and with or without seasoning.
Potatoes can be used as an adhesive in the textile industry.
The potato was the first vegetable grown in space aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia in October 1995.
According to the Guinness World Records the heaviest potato ever grown weighed 10 pounds and 14 ounces. It was grown in the United Kingdom by Peter Glazebrook.